Dwarf Hotot
Country
of origin
France
Use Show, pets
Traits
Face
color
Black, Blue or Chocolate eyebands
(Lilac is also possible, however not
recognized by the American Rabbit
Breeder's Association)
Color White
A Dwarf Hotot, 5 months old
Dwarf Hotot
Dwarf Hotot is a breed of domestic rabbit
characterized by an entirely white coat, except for a
circle of another color around each eye.
The Dwarf Hotot is one of the more recent breeds to be
recognized by the ARBA, gaining acceptance in 1983.
It has never been without a strong following, but also
has never been among the most popular breeds.[1]
The much larger Blanc de Hotot was produced in the
early 1900s in an effort to produce a black-eyed white
rabbit for meat and fur. In that era, large rabbits were
valued for their commercial value. But in later years,
big bunnies went out of style and people started
pursuing dwarf breeds.
In the 1970s, one breeder in East Germany and one in
West Germany started working on a Dwarf Hotot,
completely independent of one another. One crossed a
Ruby-Eyed White Netherland Dwarf to a Blanc de
Hotot; the other didn't use a standard Hotot at all, but crossed a black
Netherland Dwarf to a Dutch and bred out markings until only the
eyebands remained. The two strains were eventually united in 1979 to
produce the breed known today.[2]
The Dwarf Hotot was imported to the United States in 1980 by
Elizabeth Forstinger,[2] a rabbit breeder also known for her work in
importing and distributing the Holland Lop throughout the country.[3]
Forstinger bred the Dwarf Hotot further, eliminating blue and marbled
eye colors from the breed, and brought several Dwarf Hotots to show at
ARBA conventions each year until they were officially accepted as
separate from the Netherland Dwarf in 1984.[2]
The breed is of compact type and has a gentle rollback coat. Unlike the
Polish, which as similar body type, the shoulders are supposed to be as
wide as the hips, and not show any taper. The head set is not as high on the shoulders as that of a
Netherland Dwarf, but should not rest on the table either. The head is bold and broad. Ears are carried in
an upright V shape, and are disqualified if over 2 ¾ inches in length. The eyes are encircled with narrow
History
