Holland Lop
Holland lop standing on her back feet
Breed Holland Lop
Weight 2–4 lb (0.91–1.81 kg; 2.0 lb –
4.0 lb)
AppearanceVarious fur colors and big droopy
ears
Allele series for Dutch spotting in rabbits.
From left to right: Du (black), du (dark
Dutch), du+ (Medium Dutch), duW (White
Dutch).
Holland Lop
The Holland Lop is a breed of lop-eared rabbit that
was recognized by the American Rabbit Breeders
Association (ARBA) in 1979. The Holland Lop, with a
maximum weight of 1.8 kg (4 lb) (as stipulated by
ARBA), is one of the smallest lop-eared breeds.[1]
Holland Lops are one of the most popular rabbit breeds
in the United States and the United Kingdom. They
were first bred by Dutch breeder Adrian de Cock, as a
hybrid of the French Lop and the Netherland
Dwarf.[2][3][4] Holland Lops are miniature rabbits that
only weigh about 1–2 kg (2–4 lb).[5] They are
muscular in relation to their compact frame, and have a
wide variety of coat colours. Their lopped ears are one
of their most distinctive features.[5][6]
The history of Holland Lops began with Dutch breeder
Adrian de Cock from Tilburg, Netherlands. Holland Lops
were acknowledged by the American Rabbit Breed
Association (ARBA) in 1979 and made known to the public
in 1980.[2][4]
When Adrian de Cock realized that French Lops were over-
sized and Netherland Dwarfs were under-sized in 1949, he decided to breed the two with each other in
hopes that their offspring will inherit the optimal size. French Lops weigh 4.5–6.8 kg (10–15 lb) while
Netherland Dwarfs only weigh around 0.5–1.1 kg (1.1–2.5 lb). Unfortunately, the results were nothing
like what de Cock expected. Their offspring were way too big and died as a result. The mother (female
Netherland Dwarf) also died from the breeding process. In 1951, de Cock decided to try the breeding
process again. Instead of using a Netherlands Dwarf doe, he used a male Netherland Dwarf buck. He did
not think that this was possible at first, because the French Lop was much bigger than the Netherland
Dwarf buck. The results exceeded de Cock's expectations. All of the offspring were normal-sized and had
standard ear positions. In 1952, de Cock wanted the rabbits' ears to be lopped (hanging limply), so he let
a French Lop's and a Netherland Dwarf buck's off-spring breed with the Sooty Fawn, an English Lop
with visibly lopped ears. The results were one with lopped ears, 2 with normal ears, and one with semi-
History
