Netherland Dwarf rabbit
Country of
origin
 Netherlands
Distribution Worldwide
Traits
Weight 1.1–2.5 pounds (0.50–
1.13 kg)
Coat Short, Fine
Lifespan 7-10 years
A Netherland Dwarf rabbit; note the
short ears, brachycephalic head and
cobby body. Ruby-eyed white colour
variety
Netherland Dwarf rabbit
The Netherland Dwarf is a breed of domestic rabbit
that originated in the Netherlands. Weighing 1.1–2.5
pounds (0.50–1.13 kg),[1][2] the Netherland Dwarf is
one of the smallest rabbit breeds. Its popularity as a pet
or show rabbit may stem from its neotenic appearance.
The Netherland Dwarf is recognised by both the
American Rabbit Breeders Association (ARBA)[1] and
the British Rabbit Council (BRC).[2] The Netherland
Dwarf is often confused with the Polish breed of
rabbit, but the latter has longer ears, a non-
brachycephalic head and less cobbiness. There are also
different groups within the breed, such as: true dwarfs,
false dwarfs and a group with a nickname "Peanuts".
True dwarfs have one allele for dwarfism out of the
two which makes it smaller than a false dwarf, true
dwarfs are the ideal Netherland dwarf. False dwarfs
have zero alleles for dwarfism out of the two which
makes them larger than usual. Peanuts have two alleles
for dwarfism, which can only happen if you breed two
true dwarfs together. This causes the rabbit to be
abnormally small and often die as in nearly all cases
they can not drink their mother's milk.
The Netherland Dwarf breed was first produced in the
Netherlands in the early 20th century. Small Polish rabbits
were bred with smaller wild rabbits;[3] after several generations
the resulting animal was a very small domestic rabbit available
in a wide variety of colours and patterns. Netherland Dwarfs
were first imported into the United Kingdom in 1948.[3] In the
1960s and 1970s the United States imported its first Netherland
Dwarf rabbits. The breed was accepted by the American Rabbit
Breeders Association in 1969 using a modification of the
British standard.[3]
Early dwarfs, even into the 1970s and 1980s, had fearful and sometimes aggressive temperaments. This
was a result of breeders selecting wild breeding animals for their size. The first dwarf rabbits behaved
more like these wild rabbits than domestic animals and were not good pets. However, through generations
of selective breeding, the modern Netherland Dwarf has become a gentle, friendly pet rabbit, though it
still can retain a more energetic disposition than larger breeds.
History
